---
title: Loomio
date: 2016-11-26 00:00:00 Z
categories:
- Decide on an issue
description: decide on an issue by exploring arguments and objectives
summary: Use Loomio to make decisions without a mess of emails or meetings. Invite
  anyone to your conversation, structure the debate and finally vote. Easy right?
image: loomio.png
video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eZDBMfe3iPE
participants: Small to medium sized groups
preparations: Sign up or log in with Facebook to create a group
difficulty: Easy. Use on website or iPhone or Android app
democat: Talk to your IT-person for licensing!
website: http://loomio.org/
documentation: https://help.loomio.org
twitter: Loomio
---

## What is it and why should I use it?

Loomio is an online meeting tool. It’s easy to use and accessible, enabling you to engage with people in a facilitated conversation.  You can get people together from all over the world, have clear on topic conversations, see a visual summary of where everyone stands. Then finally decide and act! Anyone can now participate in decisions that affect them. Purr.

## How do I use it?

Log in to the Loomio website to start your discussion, frame the topic and gathers opinion by posting a thread. The decision-maker lets everyone know that the topic has been opened and that they plan to make a decision. Those who are affected can add information and their own perspectives as comments.

The decision-maker starts by putting forward a course of action with a clear timeframe and the platform produces a summary of all advice produced based on participations meaning that any participant can easily see what everyone thinks, and why.

Finally the decision-maker specifies the outcome and after deadline considers the advice given in order to state the outcome with a clearly documented decision process.

> Loomio allowed us to expand on what would typically be the local town hall meeting, and reach many more people. We reached people that otherwise wouldn't have contributed to the conversation, including marginalised populations and youth.
>
> <cite>&mdash; Tom MacDiarmid, Statistics New Zealand</cite>
